I love the 80/20 rule and have spent a lot of time thinking about this. 99/1 for writers:

1) write a book in a market that has existing fans who want more, using the expected tropes etc.
2) write a killer blurb. High selling books in your target genre are where you start. Read the reviews to understand why people bought the books and really liked/didn't like them. Copy out the blurbs by hand to get the feeling in your bones. 
3) get a professional cover design that adheres to genre expectations. Look at the high selling books in your target genre, understand the presentation tropes and then find a cover designer who has successfully pulled off covers in said genre. 
4) build your mailing list; every promotion you do should be focused on getting people on your mailing list. If you had to choose between getting someone on your list and selling them a single book, I would choose the sub every time and twice on Tuesday. Or something/

4a) from your mailing list, you can sell backlist books, get reviews, run promos and do all the stuff that costs hundreds or even thousands of dollars...completely for free.

5) Use these promo sites:

Tier BookBub

BookBub

Tier 1 (Always, if available)
Robin Reads ($30)
ENT ($30)
Fiverr ($5.50)

Tier 2 (Depends)
FKBT
Booksends
Books Butterfly
Free/Bargain Booksy
KND Highlighter ($30)

Tier 3 (Cheap/Useful for Stacking)
eBookhounds ($8)
BookBassett ($8)
BettyBookFreak ($12)
Genre Pulse (~$15)
SweetFreeBooks ($7)
Fussy Librarian ($16)
eBooksoda ($15)

Genre Specific:
BookBarbarian
MyRomanceReads
ILVN

5a) If you have money, you can play around with PPC ads (Amazon, Goodreads, Facebook, Twitter etc.). If you don't have extra money/time to invest really learning the platforms, this is a good way to light a lot of money on fire and see nothing in return. 

5b) do cross author promos. EB Brown and Patty Jansen have both done really successful ones on the board. More people are doing them now, so this is a good free or low cost way to get more exposure

5c) social media: 99% of people do this so incorrectly that I can't honestly recommend it, but a few people absolutely kill it (mainly romance authors on Facebook). 

6) repeat step 1 - 3 on a minimum 90 day schedule. 60 days is best. Every 30 days if you're superhuman. Build + engage with your mailing list as much as you can.

That's about it. At the beginning, before you have a mailing list, you might have to solicit reviews (use things like Story Cartel, Library Thing, Choosy Bookworm's review service etc. to make this way easier), pay for more promos that might not make you back money and do some other things I'm forgetting. Things like making sure your print interior is on point or any countless number of other things - nope. 

Naturally, I ignore my own advice and still go hacking off in the weeds. The more I think about it, this business is simple - and, like most things in life, that does not mean it's easy. It's the execution and not shooting yourself in the foot by doing dumb stuff that's hard. 

Nick
